personal meeting with General Earl Rutter. So Dr.
Wooten just asked me, he says, Randy, do you have
your uniform? And I said, well, it was in my truck. I
mean, everything I own is in my truck. And he says,
if you're going to Vietnam, you need to see General
Rutter. And I kind of looked at him and I said, The
General Rutter, I guess I said, okay. Well, it
shows you how small the college was. I don't know
for sure in 69 what Dr. Wooten's position was. He
was just a really nice professor. He was my
advisor. But he picked up the phone, and he called
General Rutter's office, and he says, I was a first
lieutenant then. You were second lieutenant for
12 months, and then you were first lieutenant
then. And he says, I have First Lieutenant Randy
House here. He's a 67 A&M class of 67, and he's en
route to Vietnam. He leaves in three or four days,
and I think General Rutter would like to talk to
him. Well, whoever was running General Rutter's
outer office said, wait a minute, and the next
thing we knew, we had an appointment like 45
minutes. So I ran out, put on my uniform, and Dr.
Wooten and I marched up there, and I didn't even
know where his office was, and he showed me where it
was, and I went in there, and it was just the three of
us. And I'll never forget, he asked
me a few questions, and I was a ranger, and I was in
infantry, and airborne, and then he saw my aviator
wings, and he said, you're an airborne infantry
ranger aviator. And I said, yes, sir. And he says,
and you're only a lieutenant. And I said, well,
sir, they just, all I, except for a few months in the
82nd Airborne, I've just been in schools all this
time, and those were just all the schools I went to.
And he says, you know, I was a ranger. I said, yes,
sir, I know all about the 2nd Rangers. I said, I've
read the books, and I can tell you everything about
the 2nd Ranger Battalion. And he says, well, so
you're going to go to Vietnam and fly helicopters?
And I said, yes, sir. And he said, well, the main
thing about combat is taking care of the troops.
And he says taking care of the troops does not mean
coddling them or babying them. It means making
sure they're trained and they're ready to and
they're tough and they don't quit but that you're
out there sharing the hardships with them and
you're not in some warm tent when they're freezing
or or you're dry when they're wet or whatever. And
he says, you know, that's the main thing that I can,
and I don't remember, we talked for the longest
time, but that's what I remember was he didn't talk
to me about bravery. He didn't talk to me about
shooting straight. He didn't talk to me about any
of those skills. It was taking care of the troops.
And so, yeah, my, everything that I remember about
General Rutter as a student, him moving it from a
college to a university,
him being the guy that saw that if it was gonna
become a great university, it had to be coed. And so
in my unit, because General Rudder was in favor of
it, and I thought General Rudder walked on water, I
said, it's good that we're a university and it's
good that we have co-eds, but intellectually, I
couldn't debate a good debater. Because some of
the guys had already figured out all the bad points
of a university and co-ed things. And all I could
say was, the general wants this, and we've got to
support him. And I said, if we, and I remember
telling the group, I said, if we fight this, It's
just going to make it harder. It's going to happen
anyway, but it's not going to be done as well. I
said, what General Rudder needs is our support.
And I remember just telling a group of people that,
and I was definitely the minority. All right. What
about making the Corps non-compulsory? Well,
that happened at the same time. How did you and your
associates feel about that? Well... it was
interesting although I did not take the core
seriously as seriously as I wish I would have or I
could have or as I did a little later I felt the core
was a good thing and I wasn't into intellectually
the freedom of choosing so I was probably a pretty
much of a traditionalist and I didn't see the
wisdom of that. But I never, for some reason, I
can't tell you what General Rutter's position was
on it. You know, I mean, at the time, I know what it is
now. I mean, I know he was a proponent of, you know, a
university had to widen its vision blocks, but for
some reason, he wasn't getting criticized or
credited with that, and so I didn't. What about
integration, racial integration? Do you know
that before I got into the Army, I don't think I ever
met, I did not, I wasn't ever in a football game, a
situation, a classroom, anything with a Jew or a
black. But y'all were aware there were black
students starting to attend A&M, weren't you?
Right, but I never saw one. No, but what was the
attitude? See, I
haven't uncovered so far anybody that thought
that was bad. No. I was raised... down here at this
ranch, and the land we bought was in 1865 given to
three slave families. And when my daddy in 1955
bought this land, there was like 100 heirs to these
families, these 1865 families. And everybody,
all my neighbors were black, and they were all good
people. And we all, you know, they helped me in the
hay fields. And I always felt, that's my fax, I
always felt, you know, they were okay. So I never
had any negative black minority situation. So I
wasn't, I don't think I was prejudiced. It's just
that In high school, they were just never there. I
remember as soon as I got in the Army and some of the
things started happening with Martin Luther King
and all that and the marches and all that started
happening, I was glad to see, I remember being glad
to listen that Martin Luther King was talking
nonviolence because I felt even back then that if
blacks became violent, we were going to be in big
trouble. And so I was kind of a fan of Martin Luther
King when I first started reading about his
speeches. But I don't remember integration being
a big deal, not like women and not like going from a
college to a university. Let me turn this.
As a sophomore, Anything
unusual happen with academics? Any major changes
for you as a sophomore? No, nothing stands out
except I took organic chemistry, 227,
228. and I made D's and Dr. Romaine told me that I
would not be accepted to vet school. I didn't know
whether to believe him or not because I found
entries where I even had my checklist of when I'm
accepted to vet school, what I'm gonna do. But I was
not accepted to vet school at the end of my
sophomore year. You did apply. I did apply, oh
yeah. I applied, matter of fact, I was an
alternate. And they went through like 18, they
accepted 120 something. And it turned to a three
year program, three year around the clock. And
they upped it to about 120. And I was like 18th
alternate, and they went through around 15
alternates.
But I was very encouraged by that, and Dr. Romaine
was. And so that's when he allowed me to take, in my
junior year, veterinary genetics and some
veterinary courses. And I don't know if it was out
of the ordinary or whatever, but I took veterinary
courses, and I made A's in them. At the end of my
junior year, I applied to vet school. My grades
were much better. I had demonstrated I could take
vet courses and make A's, and I wasn't even an
alternate. But what had happened was the Vietnam
War had gotten serious, and most of those that were
accepted at A&M were not pre-vet, but they were
they had their degrees, they had four-year
degrees, and so it became what I felt was a dodge,
you know, a draft dodge. And so there's so many
people applied, and they were still on except 120,
and although I was doing better, I didn't even, you
know, I wasn't even in the hunt anymore. So at the
end of my junior year, I knew... that I wouldn't be a
veterinarian at that time. And then
simultaneously with that,
my brother had just gotten out of the Navy as an
officer. He was a Tulane graduate, had gone
through Navy ROTC, had done his two years in the
Navy. and was in the Navy Reserves and chose to be in
the active reserves in Houston and was in a CB
company. He was a company commander of a CB company
in Houston, Texas. Well, there was a, right at this
time, there was the Department of Defense, and
I've subsequently researched it, were debating,
it was the, butter and guns debate with Lyndon
Johnson, and Lyndon wanted the Great Society
program to continue, and he detested the war, but
he was determined to fight it without the reserves
and without the National Guard, which we had never
done before in the history of this nation. But some
in the Department of Defense convinced somebody
in the White House to do a test, so they called up one
reserve air force unit, one reserve navy unit, one
reserve marine unit, one reserve army unit, and
sent them to Vietnam just as a test to see how they
would do. Well, the unit they picked in the navy was
my brother's unit, and he had just gone into
business for himself as an architect in Houston.
He had a brand new business because he'd been
working for an architect for a couple years, and
now he's just gone into his own business And he had
three sons under the age of five. And he gets called
up and he's one month from the end of his
seven-year, eight-year commitment. I mean, one
more month and he would have not been eligible. And
he didn't even blink. He said, if that's the way it
is, I'm going to Vietnam. So here I am. At the end of
my junior year, my brother, who to this day is next
to my dad, is the finest man I've ever met. He was
seven years older than me, was an honor student, an
unbelievable athlete, president of his class,
always the top-notch guy, and I was kind of in the
middle of the pack in my group. So here he was going
to Vietnam, so I said, I'm going to Vietnam. I mean,
my big brother's going to Vietnam, I'm going to
Vietnam. So I went and talked to Colonel Simmons,
Jim Simmons, my ROTC instructor friend, who was a
captain then, and I said, well, what do you think we
should do? And he says, well, you've got to make a
decision. You said you didn't, you know, you went,
you're... Your junior year you went contract, so
you're under contract, and so you're going to ROTC
summer camp at Fort Sill this summer. He said, what
you need to do is you need to do real well at ROTC
summer camp. You need to come back your senior year
and just get the commission as quick as you can. and
go to Vietnam, and then I said, do your duty, and he
was an Aggie, Jim was an Aggie, and he says, then
after that, you can either resign or stay in, and if
you want to resign, try to come back here, and maybe
then you'll be older, you'll be a graduate, you may
be able to get into some kind of a master's program,
and then be able to get back and be able to accept vet
school. Things may be a little different a couple
years from now. So I said, okay. So I went to ROTC
summer camp that year. Where was it? At Fort Sill,
Oklahoma. Tropical Oasis. Yeah. And it was really
interesting.
Whereas Army ROTC at A&M was a lot of marching. We
didn't have the Rangers then. We didn't do a lot of
real Army stuff. The rifle marksmanship was very
focused and limited. And so what I knew about the
Army was drill and ceremony. I get to...
Fort Sill, and you go on compass courses,
survival, escape and evasion courses. You have to
shoot all kind of weapons. I mean, pistols,
rifles, bazookas. You have to do all these things.
Well, I was a natural at all that. And I came back
from ROTC number one cadet in the program. I wasn't
even an all, I was, my senior year, I was not
anything. I was just a senior. And I came out of ROTC
summer camp number one. Eddie Joe Davis was number
15. All these guys that were... And so A&M didn't
know what to do with me. All of a sudden, they had
this guy who had never taken ROTC very seriously,
had made A's in all the ROTC courses, had never
caused any trouble, but hadn't been... You know,
wasn't in the Ross Volunteers, wasn't in
anything, you know. All of a sudden, he's the
number one cadet out of 1,700 at ROTC summer camp in
all the whole nation, you know. My, my, my. And so it
was really interesting. One of the things I did up
there was I maxed out the PT test. All the PT tests I
scored 100 on. Well, so they said, we're going to
put House in charge of preparing the juniors for
summer camp. So we're going to create a special
position. And he's not going to, you know, here at
A&M. And so my whole senior year, I had a special
office, a special staff, and our mission was to
prepare the juniors. And so I started, I just took
what we did at summer camp and started saying,
well, we need to do these things. Well, it had never
been done before at A&M. You mean you want to do a
compass course? And I says, yeah, you got enough
land out here and you got gullies and whatever. So I
went out and built a compass course. And I said,
look, you do all this rappelling and stuff and it's
fun. And so I went and built a rappelling tower and
qualified people in my whole senior year. brought
these kids through. Well, I remember Gene
Stallings was the football coach. And I wanted to
set up a PT test and an obstacle course where the
football team practiced. And this was not going to
be a permanent thing, you know, but it was going to
be semi-permanent. And so I had to go see Gene
Stallings. Well, I'd never met him before. And I
went in, you know, I got an appointment and went in
there because it was, you know, the land was at
premium and this is where, you know, my analysis, I
need to do this thing. And I went in there and met him
for the first time and he listened to me and he said,
I heard what you were coming in here to ask and I was
prepared to throw you out. But he said, it sounds
like you're really serious about this program.
And I said, sir, You know, if I can run these kids
through here in the spring repeatedly, I said,
we'll knock them dead at summer camp next summer.
And I said, I'll have it all gone for spring
training. I mean, I'll have it all gone. You can
have all these fields. and everything so he gave me
permission to use the fields and then we went out
there and I don't know where I got the money but we
built you know with railroad ties and two by fours
we built this obstacle course and so that was my
mission and then you know then the kids went off and
I think we did the Aggies And ever since then, I've
watched the ROTC summer camps, and the Aggies have
done extremely well at ROTC summer camp. They
didn't necessarily do well before. But now, even
to this day, we have a junior preparation program,
and that's what we needed. Now, to whom were you
turning for advice? Jim Simmons. Jim Simmons.
Yes, Captain Jim Simmons. All right, but for you
generally... Academically. Dr. Romaine had
been. And then Dr. Wooten. And Aggie. And Aggie, he
was my advisor. Did you, were you thinking about a,
let's say as a senior, if you didn't get into vet
school ever, what would your career perhaps be?
No. All I was doing was going to Vietnam, serving my
country, coming back. And the only issue was did I
come back and I'd taken the GRE, so was I going to go
to graduate school in ag-eco, or was I just going to
start taking, somehow get permission to take vet
courses and then just kind of work my way in, and I
hadn't sorted that out. But no, my whole life I'd
wanted to be a horse doctor, and I was determined to
be the best horse doctor around. And
academically, do you feel that you got about the
grades you earned? Oh, yeah. I... What was really
interesting, and my cousin taught this to me, but I
didn't learn it, because my senior year, I made
almost all As. I really did well my senior year. And
my junior year, I did much better. It was just that
organic chemistry. But my cousin, who went to vet
school and was accepted, Texas A&M would take like
seven Louisiana students And they had hundreds
applying, and he was one of those seven. And this
was a kid I was raised with. Matter of fact, our
birthdays are July 23rd and July 24th. We're the
same age, and our mamas are sisters. And just a
really close friend and close friend to this day. I
remember when Donald came here, I would study with
Donald, because I was taking a couple courses. And
I'll never forget this. I studied for the exam at
the time. Donald studied to know everything about
the course, know everything about the subject. He
never studied for an exam. And I figured that out,
but I figured it out too late. And so then when I went
to all through all my courses, you know, in the
Army, I was always an honor graduate in every
course. Every school I went to, I was a
distinguished graduate of the Ranger School. I
was the first to solo in my flight class. But my
philosophy changed. I no longer studied for
tests. I studied to know everything there was
about the subject. And then I just would go take the
test. And that's what Donald taught me, you know,
as just a friend and a cousin. And then it just, and
then when I went to graduate school at Clemson, you
know, the Army said, you know, we're sending you to
graduate school. You're representing the U.S.
Army. You've got to make all As. And I was right out
of Vietnam, and I said, yes, sir. And I went to
Clemson and made all As. And I never made all As in my
life. As far as you and your buddies knew, were
there any giveaway courses at A&M when you were an
undergraduate? If there were, I didn't know about
it. Or it didn't register because, like I say, the
only advice from my dad was take the hard courses
that make you think and make you write and make you
communicate. So I wasn't looking for easy
courses. See, I really didn't. I was so confident I
was going to get in vet school because I knew so much
about horses and cattle that I figured that
with... You know, as long as I took the tough
courses and I did okay. It was just that organic
chemistry that, yes, darling. Back on. As you look
back, were there some courses that really were
important to your future that you now realize you
took as an undergraduate A&M? And or some people?
Well, as far as individual courses, I don't, I
don't, a course doesn't stick out
that I can say was, you know, that really made a
difference. I think I was guided enough,
counseled enough that, that I, Had a fairly broad
base of courses and the only ones I remember were
the ones I didn't do well in you know that I stumbled
and then didn't and even when I read in my journals I
Admit I just didn't work hard enough because it at
that time in my life I And it was always through the
military. I was just a hard worker. And if I applied
myself and I worked hard, then I got the results. If
I backslid a little bit, I wasn't smart enough to
pull it off. I wasn't gifted enough. And so every
once in a while, I'd get caught like that. As far as
people, it was interesting.
Randy Madsen was in his heyday. He was my
classmate. He and I played handball, and here he
was, the best athlete in the world, but I could hang
in there with him playing handball. I played
handball for 30 years, and I learned, I took it in
63, and when you read through my journals, that
seemed to be the thing that I really enjoyed, was
playing handball, and it was an equalizer. You
didn't have to be the fastest guy in the world. You
didn't have to be the quickest. You didn't have to
be the biggest or the strongest. You had to be in
excellent condition, and I was in excellent
physical condition. That was always a hallmark of
mine, even though I didn't have some of the other
gifts. So Randy doesn't remember it. I've met him a
couple times since then, and he doesn't remember
us playing as much as I remember. But see, I was just
a nothing. guy and he used to lift weights over
there, you know, where the handball courts were.
And then I think just to relax a little bit, he'd go
up and play handball. Well, he wasn't a serious
handball player and I was a serious handball
player. So I always, I was, but I thought Randy
Madsen represented Texas A&M in the Olympics, you
know, and was just such a gentleman. And I
remember, you know, how some of the people stood on
the platforms and wanted some of these things they
said in the interviews. And Randy was always such a
class act. And I was always impressed with that. I
knew Eddie Joe Davis all four years. Describe
Eddie Joe as a student. Eddie Joe, you knew as a
fish, was going to be the Corps commander. And
Eddie Joe Davis, what was interesting about Eddie
Joe was Eddie Joe was a nice guy. He was a nice
person. But he was just very focused. And I always
admired that about him. I wasn't focused on the
Corps. I was focused on ranching and rodeoing and
other things. But I admired Eddie Joe, and I knew
that he would do very well, and I was not the least
surprised when he was my corps commander, and I was
very proud that he was our corps commander, and I
thought he was a great one. Were there any notable
visitors that came to A&M during that time? I can't
think of any Hollywood stars or the president
or... No. Oh, were you present in Duncan Dunning
Hall when Linda Bird Johnson came to eat lunch? No,
if I did, it didn't register, so I wasn't.
While Lyndon was vice president, I think it was,
Yeah, this would be a year before you. While Lyndon
was vice president, he came to speak at SCONA. Oh,
okay. And she came as a freshman from UT to come and
hear her father speak. The Corps commander took
her over to Duncan Dining Hall, and this is the week
after the massacre of the Aggies on Thanksgiving
Day. And on a given signal, all the fish jumped up
and yelled, beat the hell out of TU. She stood up in
silence, and everybody got very, very quiet. And
then all at once, she gave a hook'em horn sign and
yelled, hook'em horns, and they stood and cheered
for her. No, I don't remember anything like that.
What about MSC? Was that important for you? Were
there MSC activities you participated in? Well,
there was a couple things about the MSC. Number
one,
the Aggies that died in World War II, we ended up
doing a Vietnam War kind of like that, where their
names are all there. And I remember... frequently
standing there just looking at those names and
thinking about that, because Vietnam was
happening, especially my senior year, because I
knew I was going to Vietnam and everything. So that
was kind of interesting. The second thing was I
loved the Metzger gun collection. It was at the
time in the MSC. And I just was fascinated that
someone was could acquire a personal collection
of firearms like that. And I would go up there, and
there was hardly ever anybody there. And so it was
kind of a solitude place for me. The other thing
about the MSC was I could get, that's where I
started learning to read the Wall Street. And I've
read the Wall Street ever since. And I'd buy a Wall
Street, a cup of coffee, and a donut for a quarter.
And there was a special, and this was when I was a
junior and a senior, and I would read the Wall
Street in the same place at the same time. It seemed
like the same place at the same time for two years.
And the MSC, you know, I liked it, you know,
because, you know, even seniors couldn't walk on
the grass. I mean, it was a very special place. I
never saw any harassment going on there. I just, it
was, people seemed, and I started kind of
understanding what, you know, when things were
called memorial bridges or memorial stadiums or
memorial thisses, you know, that most of that
usually was tied to World War II or maybe World War
I. And I, the MSC has, you know, just had a fond place
in my heart, I think. In general, describe the A&M
student body when you were here.